In this lecture we will be learning about the saga better which is an alternative to Two-Face commit
to manage distributed transactions saga and be considered a sequence of local transactions in different
micro services each local transaction updates the database of the micro service and then publishes a
message or event to trigger the next local transaction in the saga.
If one local transaction fails the saga executes a series of compensating transactions lateral exchanges
of local transactions forming part of the distributive transaction that have already been executed.
There are too many different types of Saga implementations.
The first is choreographic base saw us where each Stoeckel transaction publishes domain events that
will trigger local transactions in other services until the saga is completed.
So in this example here where the payment service Dienste payment from a customer then the order is
created and then the products are reserved for the customer the order service first sends a payment
request vent to the message broker to start the saga.
The payment service which has subscribed to the payment requests haven't received this message and attempts
to obtain payment from the customer.
It then sends a message indicating the payment has been received successfully which will be picked up
by the order service.
If the payment was not received successfully the saga ends and no further actions are needed.
However if the payment was received successfully the order service attempts to create the order and
sends an event indicating if this was successful which is picked up by bought the product Tervis and
payment service if the order creation was not successful then the payment service must execute the compensating
transactions to roll back the actions taken to date payments from the customer which would most likely
involve a refund and sending an email to the customer or notifying them on the screen if the order was
created successfully the product service which subscribes to this event will attempt to reserve the
products requested for the order.
It will then send an event indicating whether the products were reserved successfully.
If so then the saga ends as no further actions are required.
However if the products were not preserved successfully both the order service and the payment service
will roll back the actions they have performed in this saga.
Compensating transactions as you can see do a distribute transactions are handled is different from
to face commet where transactions would not be committed to the database before these have been approved
by all participating micro services the alternative way of implementing some of us is by using and orchestrator
in orchestrator based Saugus and orchestrator which is usually spawned specifically for each Psagot
instruct the micro services involved in the saga what local transactions to execute.
So basically it coordinates the whole saga to use the same example that was taken for the choreographic
base saga and implement it using an orchestrator.
The order service creates an order saga object which doesn't need to be a separate service it can just
be an object residing inside the order service.
The order creation saga will instruct the payment service to request payment and we'll wait for a message
indicating if payment was received successfully.
If not then the order creation saga terminates immediately as no more actions are required.
However if payment was received successfully during the creation saga sends a message to the order service
to create an order the order service will then reply to the order creation saga on whether the order
was created successfully if the order wasn't created successfully the order creation saga instructs
the payment service to roll back its previous actions taken to request payment.
And then this saga terminates on the other hand if the order was created successfully the order creation
saga sends a request to the product service to reserve product the product service with a new like with
a message indicating if the products were successfully.
If so then the saga can terminate as no further actions are required in the saga.
However if the product service didn't manage to reserve the product then the order creation saga will
notify boat or their service and payment service to roll back the previous actions they have taken in
the saga.
The overall advantages of the saga operator are that it then a bill is an application to maintain data
consistency across multiple services.
However as you can see the development process becomes more complex and also takes longer compensating
actions need to be developed for each transaction to be able to roll back.
Also ideally the micro service should publish the event and update the database atomically to prevent
race conditions and potential data inconsistencies.
This implies that certain data related patterns should be used that support this.
One of the most popular is event sourcing which we discussed in the earlier lectures but it's also possible
with other less common patterns such as using a database trigger to write events to a table that is
spoiled by a process that publishes these events.